#Home

Union Public Service Commision

The Union Public Service Commission (UPSC; Hindi: संघ लोक सेवा आयोग) is India's central agency authorised to
conduct the
Civil Services Examination,
Engineering Services Examination,
Combined Medical Services Examination,
Combined Defence Services Examination,
National Defence Academy Examination,
 Naval Academy Examination,
 Special Class Railway Apprentice,
Indian Forest Service examination
, Indian Economic Service examination,
Indian Statistical Service examination,
Combined Geoscientist and Geologist Examination,
and Central Armed Police Forces (Assistant Commandant) examination.

The agency's charter is granted by the Constitution of India. Articles 315 to 323 of Part XIV of the constitution,
titled as Services Under the Union and the States, provide for a Public Service Commission for the Union and for
each state. The examination conducted for Civil Servents has a success rate of 0.1%–0.3%.




#Syllabus

UPSC Syllabus

In this article, you will get explained about UPSC syllabus and UPSC exam
 pattern. This post will cover subjects and schemes of the UPSC syllabus
 for the Civil Services Preliminary Examinations Syllabus and Civil Services
  Main Examinations Syllabus.

UPSC Syllabus for Preliminary Examinations.

Preliminary Examinations consist of two papers and both of them are compulsory and each comprises of 200 marks.
-These two papers are termed as General Studies Paper-I and General Studies Paper-II.
-Both the question papers will be of multiple choice questions (objective type).This paper will be in two sets English and Hindi.
-Duration of each paper will be of two hours. In exceptional cases of the blind, disability, and cerebral palsy, you will get 20 minutes extra per hour in each paper.
-In Preliminary Examinations of General Studies Paper-II, you have to qualify the exam with minimum qualifying marks fixed at 33%.


UPSC Syllabus for Preliminary Examination Paper I – (200 marks)

Current affairs and current events of international and national importance.
General science
General issues on Climate Change, Environmental Ecology and Biodiversity (It don’t require subject specialization )
Indian National Movement and History of India.
World and Indian Geography- It contains Rights Issues, Physical Geography of India and the world, Economic Geography of India and the world, Social Geography of India and the world.
Indian Polity and Governance – Constitution, Public Policy, Political System, Panchayati Raj, etc.
Social Development and Economic – It contains Social Sector initiatives, Sustainable Development, Inclusion, Demographics, and Poverty etc.
>UPSC Syllabus for Preliminary Examination Paper II – (200 marks).Duration two hours.

Problem-solving and Decision-making
General mental ability
Comprehension
Data interpretation (charts, graphs, tables, data sufficiency etc. –Class X level), Basic numeracy (numbers and their relations, orders of magnitude, etc.) (Class X level). To download free NCERT Books from Class 5 to Class 12thClick here.
Analytical ability and Logical reasoning.
Interpersonal skills including communication skills


 UPSC Syllabus for Main Examinations

Your rank in UPSC CSE will only depend on Main Examinations and your Interview (Personality Test). Your UPSC CSE Main consists of 1750 marks and Interview (Personality Test) section consists of 275 marks.

Your UPSC syllabus for the main examination contains nine papers, but only seven papers are considered for final ranking. In the remaining two papers, you have to secure minimum marks which are declared by UPSC every year and

The main Exam of UPSC Civil Services is the totally written examination and it consists of following papers which are mentioned below.



Two papers which only qualifying papers and not counted for your final ranking.
Paper-A

(You have to select any one Indian Language from the Languages included in the Eighth Schedule to the Indian Constitution). Total Marks 300.

Note: – If you belong to Sikkim, Nagaland, Meghalaya, Mizoram, Manipur, and Arunachal Pradesh, these papers are not necessary for you.

Paper-B

English language. Total Marks 300.



UPSC Syllabus for Interview test

Qualified candidates from UPSC Main examination will be only eligible for interview test or personality test.
You will be interviewed by Board members will have before them a record of your
 career. You will be asked questions on matters of general interest.
The objective of this interview is to assess your personal suitability for
your further career in public service. This test will judge your mental
caliber.
This interview test will reveal not only your intellectual qualities but also social traits and your interest in current affairs.
Some of your qualities will be judged like intellectual and moral integrity, mental alertness, ability for social cohesion and leadership, critical powers of assimilation, balance of judgment, clear and logical exposition, variety and depth of interest.
The technique of the interview is not that of a strict cross-examination but of a natural though directed and purposive conversation which is intended to reveal the mental qualities of the candidate.
Your interview test is not intended to be a test either of the specialized or general knowledge which has been already tested through their written papers. You are expected to have taken an intelligent interest not only in your special subjects of academic study but also in the events which are happening around you both within and outside your own state or country as well as in modern currents of thought and in new discoveries which should rouse the curiosity of well-educated youth.
